# 174. Dungeon Game

- 난이도 : Hard.
- 관련된 주제 : Binary Search, Dynamic Programming.
- 비슷한 문제 : Unique Paths, Minimum Path Sum, Cherry Pickup.

## 문제

The demons had captured the princess (**P**) and imprisoned her in the bottom-right corner of a dungeon. The dungeon consists of M x N rooms laid out in a 2D grid. Our valiant knight (**K**) was initially positioned in the top-left room and must fight his way through the dungeon to rescue the princess.

The knight has an initial health point represented by a positive integer. If at any point his health point drops to 0 or below, he dies immediately.

Some of the rooms are guarded by demons, so the knight loses health (**negative** integers) upon entering these rooms; other rooms are either empty (**0's**) or contain magic orbs that increase the knight's health (**positive** integers).

In order to reach the princess as quickly as possible, the knight decides to move only rightward or downward in each step.

**Write a function to determine the knight's minimum initial health so that he is able to rescue the princess.**

For example, given the dungeon below, the initial health of the knight must be at least **7** if he follows the optimal path `RIGHT-> RIGHT -> DOWN -> DOWN`.

|        |      |        |
| ------ | ---- | ------ |
| -2 (K) | -3   | 3      |
| -5     | -10  | 1      |
| 10     | 30   | -5 (P) |

**Note:**

- The knight's health has no upper bound.
- Any room can contain threats or power-ups, even the first room the knight enters and the bottom-right room where the princess is imprisoned.

## 해결

```javascript
/**
 * @param {number[][]} dungeon
 * @return {number}
 */
var calculateMinimumHP = function(dungeon) {
    let m = dungeon.length;
    let n = dungeon[0].length;
    let dp = Array(m + 1).fill(0).map(_ => Array(n + 1).fill(Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER));
    let tmp = 0;
    
    dp[m][ n - 1] = 1;
    dp[m - 1][n] = 1;
    
    for (var i = m - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
        for (var j = n - 1; j >= 0; j--) {
            tmp = Math.min(dp[i][j + 1], dp[i + 1][j]) - dungeon[i][j];
            dp[i][j] = tmp <= 0 ? 1 : tmp;
        }
    }
    
    return dp[0][0];
};
```

**설명:**

nope.

**복잡도:**

- Time complexity : O(m*n).
- Space complexity : O(m*n).